RFC: Minimum Supported Rust Version (#2495)
rust-lang/rfcs: text/0000-min-rust-version.md

- auto-select: "nightly" This variant will behave in the same way as "stable", i.e.
it will take a current nightly version and will use it in a "more or equal" constraint.
- single version: "nightly: 2018-01-01" (tha main variant)
- enumeration: "nightly: 2018-01-01, 2018-01-15"
- semver-like conditions: "nightly: >=2018-01-01", "nightly: >=2018-01-01, <=2018-01-15",
"nightly: >=2018-01-01, <=2018-01-15, 2018-01-20". (the latter is interpreted as
"(version >= 2018-01-01 && version <= 2018-01-20) || version == 2018-01-20")

Such restrictions can be quite severe, but hopefully this functionality will be
used only by handful of crates.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

- Declaration of MSRV, even with the checks, does not guarantee that crate
will work correctly on the specified MSRV, only appropriate CI testing can do that.
- More complex dependency versions resolution algorithm.
- MSRV selected by `cargo publish` with `rust = "stable"` can be too
conservative.

# Rationale and Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives

- Automatically calculate MSRV.
- Do nothing and rely on [LTS releases](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2483)

> for bumping crate MSRVs.

Reviewer: This should probably mention https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2523 which isn't exactly a mutually exclusive alternative (neither is LTS) but is still relevant.

Author: Done.

inflation, which makes it harder to keep downstream crates up-to-date. More
relaxed approach on another hand can result in broken crates for user of older
compiler versions.

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

`cargo init` will automatically create `Cargo.toml` with `rust` field equal to
`rust="stable"` or `rust="nightly"` depending on the currently used toolcahin.
On `cargo publish` cargo will take  currently used Rust compiler version and
will insert it before uploading the crate. In other words localy your `Cargo.toml`
willl still have `rust="stable"`, but version sent to crates.io will have
`rust="1.30"` if you've used Rust 1.30. This version will be used to determine if
crate can be used with the crate user's toolchain and to select appropriate
dependency versions. In case if you have `rust="stable"`, but execute
`cargo publish` with Nigthly toolcahin you will get an error.

If you are sure that your crate supports older Rust versions (e.g. by using CI
testing) you can change `rust` field accordingly. On `cargo publish` it will be
checked that crate indeed can be built with the specified version. (though this

> check can be disabled with `--no-verify` option)

Reviewer 2: What is the intended meaning of "checked that crate indeed can be built with the specified version", use `rustup` to install the specified version and package with it?

It seems like this can be covered by the error listed above:

> In case if you have `rust="stable"`, but execute `cargo publish` with Nigthly toolcahin you will get an error.

if you have `rust = "1.30"` then you will only be allowed to publish when using Rust v1.30.

Author: I had in mind that `cargo publish` in addition to the current toolchain will build crate with MSRV toolchain with some additional checks.But you are right, if we extend behaviour described for "stable"/"nightly" (i.e. you can `cargo publish only using MSRV toolchain), then describe checks will be redundant. I'll update RFC accordingly.

`rust` field should respect the following minimal requirements:
- Value should be a version in semver format **without** range operators. Note
that "1.50" is a valid value and implies "1.50.0".
- Version can not be bigger than a current stable toolchain (it will be checked
by crates.io during crate upload).
- Version can not be smaller than 1.27 (version in which  `package.rust` field
became a warning instead of an error).
- Version can not be smaller than release version of a used edition, i.e.
combination of `rust = "1.27"` and `edition = "2018"` is an invalid one.

# Future work and extensions

> [future-work]: #future-work

Reviewer 3: Some things in this section are written in the wrong tense, given that they are matters that this RFC does not decide upon. Because they’re hypothetical or tentative plans, “would” should be used instead of “will”, or else it’s easy to get confused about what’s in scope for implementation, when reading the RFC. For example, part way through reading it I was thinking that influencing version resolution was in scope due to the use of the word “will”, but it is in fact designated as possible future work.

(If you’re not sure what I’m talking about, https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/3657/when-should-i-use-would-would-have-will-and-will-have explains it decently. Also let it be known that I love the term *subjunctive mood*.)

Author: Ah, I forgot to fix it after I moved this text to the "future work" section. I will try to fix it.

> - value should be equal to "stable", "nigthly" or to a version in semver format

Reviewer 4: Shouldn't this allow a full string, like the date of a nightly build? For some tools which basically is built for a specific nightly (clippy comes to mind) this can be a useful tool. As well as that, it would be useful as AFAIK `1.xx.0-nighly` refers to all of the nightlys that have been built during the six weeks.

Author: I don't see much merit in using `1.xx.0-nightly` versions instead of the simple "nightly". I think it's a reasonable assumption that nightly toolchain will stay fairly up-to-date for most of the developers, and for crates which experience frequent breakage it's better to have finer-grained control provided by `nightly: 2018-01-01` approach.

Thanks for noticing the typo, I'll fix it!

> - version should not be bigger than the current stable toolchain

Reviewer 4: Do you mean the current nightly toolchain? Because during the lifetime of Rust `1.xx` stable, `1.xx+2` is the nightly version in use. This would then disallow the publishing to those crates to crates.io if it checks against the current stable.

Author: No, I meant stable. If we have stable Rust 1.35 and nightly 1.37, using `rust="1.37"` implying nightly toolchain will result in an ambiguity when stable Rust 1.37 will be published. So if crate depends on Nightly features, then it will have to use `rust="nightly"/"nightly: ..."`.

Implementing this functionality hopefully will allow us to close the long-standing
debate regarding whether MSRV bump is a breaking change or not and will allow
crate authors to feel less restrictive about bumping their crate's MSRV. (though
it may be a useful convention for post-1.0 crates to bump minor version on MSRV
bump to allow publishing backports which fix serious issues using patch version)

Note that described MSRV constraints and checks for dependency versions resolution
can be disabled with the `--no-msrv-check` option.

## Checking MSRV during publishing

`cargo publish` will check that upload is done with a toolchain version specified
in the `rust` field. If toolchain version is different, `cargo` will refuse to
upload the crate. It will be a failsafe to prevent uses of incorrect `rust` values
due to unintended MSRV bumps. This check can be disabled by using the existing
`--no-verify` option.

## Making `rust` field mandatory

In future (probably in a next edition) we could make `rust` field mandatory for
a newly uploaded crates. MSRV for older crates will be determined by the `edition`
field. In other words `edition = "2018"` will imply `rust = "1.31"` and

> `edition = "2015"` will imply `rust = "1.0"`.

Reviewer 3: Implying Rust 1.0 seems mostly incompatible with this statement from earlier in the document:

> Version can not be smaller than 1.27 (version in which  `package.rust` field became a warning instead of an error).

Author: The cited text is one of the requirements for the `rust` field value if it's provided explicitly, while the `edition` text is about how MSRV should be inferred if explicit value is not provided. I guess a better wording will be something like this:
>In other words `edition = "2018"` will imply that MSRV for the crate is equal to 1.31 and `edition = "2015"` will imply that MSRV is equal to 1.0.

> `cargo init` will use version of a currently used toolchain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`cargo init` would use the version of the toolchain used.
```

## `cfg`-based MSRVs

Some crates can have different MSRVs depending on target architecture or enabled
features. In such cases it can be useful to describe how MSRV depends on them,
e.g. in the following way:
```toml
[package]
rust = "1.30"

> [target.x86_64-pc-windows-gnu]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[target.x86_64-pc-windows-gnu.package]
```

rust = "1.35"

> [target.'cfg(feature = "foo")']

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[target.'cfg(feature = "foo")'.package]
```

## Extension: nightly versions

For some bleeding-edge crates which experience frequent breaks on Nightly updates
(e.g. `rocket`) it can be useful to specify exact Nigthly version(s) on which
crate can be built. One way to achieve this is by using the following syntax:
- single version: rust = "nightly: 2018-01-01"
- enumeration: "nightly: 2018-01-01, 2018-01-15"

> - (inclusive) range: "nightly: 2018-01-01..2018-01-15"

Reviewer 5: Using `..` as inclusive range in Rust is gonna be confusing. Could we incorporate the [semver operators](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying-dependencies.html#inequality-requirements) instead?

```
nightly: >=2018-01-01, <=2018-01-15
```

(every new nightly is considered a major version for sure.)

## Nightly and stable versions

Some crates may prefer to target only the most recent stable or nightly toolchain.
In addition to the versions we could allow `stable` and `nightly` values to declare
that maintainers do not track MSRV for the crate.

For some bleeding-edge crates which experience frequent breaks on Nightly updates
(e.g. `rocket`) it can be useful to specify exact Nightly version(s) on which
crate can be built. One way to achieve this is by using the following syntax:

> - auto-select: "nightly" This variant will behave in the same way as "stable", i.e.

Reviewer 3: This entire list is poorly formatted for reading, with this line being particularly problematic.

it will take a current nightly version and will use it in a "more or equal" constraint.

> - single version: "nightly: 2018-01-01" (tha main variant)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- single version: "nightly: 2018-01-01" (the main variant)
```

    { cfg = "x86_64-pc-windows-gnu", version = "1.35" },
    { cfg = 'cfg(feature = "foo")', version = "1.33" },

> ]

Reviewer 5: I prefer we reuse the existing [`[target.*]` section](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying-dependencies.html#platform-specific-dependencies) for this:

```toml
rust = "1.30"

[target.x86_64-pc-windows-gnu]
rust = "1.35"

[target.'cfg(feature = "foo")']
rust = "1.33"
```

(Note that cargo should either fully support `[target.'cfg(feature = "foo")'.dependencies]` or outright reject it)

Author: Hm, reusing `target` is a good idea. I'll replace `rust-case` with your proposal.

As for `[target.'cfg(feature = "foo")'.dependencies]`, while it's somewhat redundant to `optional = true` dependencies + `foo = [".."]`, I think it could provide a better flexibility in specification of optional dependencies (e.g. add dependency only for given target if feature is enabled), so in my opinion it should be supported.

"(version >= 2018-01-01 && version <= 2018-01-20) || version == 2018-01-20")

Such restrictions can be quite severe, but hopefully this functionality will be
used only by handful of crates.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

- Declaration of MSRV, even with the checks, does not guarantee that crate
will work correctly on the specified MSRV, only appropriate CI testing can do that.
- More complex dependency versions resolution algorithm.
- MSRV selected by `cargo publish` with `rust = "stable"` can be too
conservative.

# Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives

> - Automatically calculate MSRV.

Reviewer 3: This seems too vague to have much meaning; there are wildly different things it could mean, with completely different trade-offs. What is automatically calculating the MSRV? rustc, cargo, crates.io? How is it conveyed? Would it play well with the future work of MSRV influencing version resolution? I can think of two radically different approaches to this off the top of my head, one of which is completely different from this proposal and one of which boils down to just augmenting the `package.rust` field of this specification with some tooling to automate discovery of the MSRV.

Author: I didn't want to cover all potential approaches, as you do say yourself there are a lot of options to choose from. The main idea here is that instead of asking people to manually select MSRV via the `rust` field, we could rely on some automatic system (be it on rustc, cargo or crates.io side) to partially solve issues which have motivated this RFC.

- Do nothing and rely on [LTS releases](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2483)
for bumping crate MSRVs.

> - Allow version and path based `cfg` attributes as proposed in [RFC 2523](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2523).

Reviewer 3: RFC 2523 isn’t an *alternative* to this functionality. It’s just related functionality, and the two go together quite nicely. (RFC 2523 has been accepted now, BTW, so if mention of it is kept, the link should probably change.)

Author: Well, I think it's relatively common to list relevant proposals and approaches in the alternatives section, even though they are not alternatives _per se_. @Centril has asked me to do it [here](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2495#discussion_r325926069).

all selected versions of `foo` specify MSRV e.g. equal 1.41 or bigger (or even
nightly) `cargo` will issue an error.

`rust` field value will be checked as well, on crate build `cargo` will check if
all upstream dependencies can be built with the specified MSRV. (i.e. it will
check if there is exists solution for given crates and Rust versions constraints)

Yanked crates will be ignored in this process.

Implementing this functionality hopefully will allow to close the debate regarding
MSRV handling in crate versions and will allow crate authors to feel less
restrictive about bumping their crate's MSRV. (though it can be a usefull
convention for post-1.0 crates to bump minor version on MSRV change to allow
publishing backports which fix serious issues using patch version)

## Extension: nightly versions

For some bleeding-edge crates which experience frequent breaks on Nightly updates
(e.g. `rocket`) it can be useful to specify exact Nightly version(s) on which
crate can be built. One way to achieve this is by using the following syntax:
- single version: rust = "nightly: 2018-01-01"
- enumeration: "nightly: 2018-01-01, 2018-01-15"

> - (inclusive) range: "nightly: 2018-01-01..2018-01-15"

Reviewer 5: Using `..` as inclusive range in Rust is gonna be confusing. Could we incorporate the [semver operators](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/specifying-dependencies.html#inequality-requirements) instead?

```
nightly: >=2018-01-01, <=2018-01-15
```

(every new nightly is considered a major version for sure.)

Author: I am not particularly attached to the proposed syntax (I think the main use will be exact versions, i.e. "nightly: 2018-01-01", other variants probably will not be used much), so probably using semver operators will be indeed a better choice.

Though, after some thought I started to worry about discrepancy between how "stable" and "nightly" work. I think it will be better to interpret "nightly" as `cargo publish` will insert version of the currently used nightly toolchain, and use "nightly: *" for all nightlies. `cargo init` should probably use the latter variant on nightly. What do you think?

Reviewer 5: Sounds good to me, though it makes me think if it makes sense to mix both stable and nightly in the same line?

```
rust = "1.26, nightly: >=2017-01-01"
```

Author: Hm, for what use-cases? If code enables nightly features it can't work on stable, and if it works on stable it *should* work on nightly. (excluding potential regressions of course, which I think we can safely ignore)

Reviewer 5: @newpavlov `num-traits` uses a build script to determine whether to enable `i128`, which covers both stable and nightly. Though the said build script could emit an error itself meaning there's probably no real use case 🙃.

specify crate's Minimum Supported Rust Version (MSRV):
```toml
[package]
name = "foo"
version = "0.1.0"
rust = "1.30"
```

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Currently crates have no way to formally specify MSRV. As a result users can't
check if crate can be built on their toolchain without building it. It also
leads to the debate on how to handle crate version change on bumping MSRV,
conservative approach is to consider such changes as breaking ones, which can
hinder adoption of new features across ecosystem or result in version number
inflation, which makes it harder to keep downstream crates up-to-date. More
relaxed approach on another hand can result in broken crates for user of older
compiler versions.

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

`cargo init` will automatically create `Cargo.toml` with `rust` field equal to
`rust="stable"` or `rust="nightly: *"` depending on the currently used toolcahin.
On `cargo publish` cargo will take  currently used Rust compiler version and
will insert it before uploading the crate. In other words localy your `Cargo.toml`
willl still have `rust="stable"`, but version sent to crates.io will have

> `rust="1.30"` if you've used Rust 1.30. If "nightly: \*" is used, then `cargo`

Reviewer 7: I don't like this kind of automatic conversion from `stable` to e.g. `1.30`. I think it is counter-intuitive.

Instead, I would like to propose a slightly more complicated approach with a huge effect on the question raised above (namely "Is a MSRV change a breaking change for a crate which then requires a major version bump?"). Let me give an example:

1. A user might declare the MSRV to be `1.30`. This means that the crate which is published to crates.io can be compiled by every compiler between `1.30` (inclusive) and `2` (exclusive), just as semantic versioning suggests. If he uploads the next (patch or minor) version of the same crate, the MSRV must be equal to or smaller than `1.30`. Everything else would be considered a breaking change. If he uploads the next major version, of course he's free to change the MSRV.

2. A user might also declare the MSRV to be `stable`. When published to crates.io, `stable` is converted to `stable(1.30)` with `1.30` being the current stable release. This means that the published artifact will work with a compiler between version `1.30` (inclusive) and `2` (exclusive). So far no difference! Now, times passes and a new stable compiler (`1.31`) was published. The crate artifact which was already published still works with a compiler between `1.30` (inclusive) and `2` (exclusive). But if the crate author opts to publish a new crate version, the MSRV for the new artifact is automatically raised to `stable(1.31)` which means that it guarantees to work with a compiler version between `1.31` (inclusive) and `2` (exclusive). This MSRV change wound not be considered a breaking change since it was already declared before.

Therefore a crate author has to options:

1. Fix the MSRV to a specific version, e.g. `1.30`.
2. Fix the MSRV to `stable` which means that a future crate version might require a future compiler version (which is at least stable).

Anyway, changing the MSRV is considered to be a breaking change which requires a major version bump. (Someone might relax this requirement as I did in the example above and allow a change from e.g. `stable` to `1.32` or `1.31` to `1.30`, since that is no compatibility problem).

I think, one could take this idea even further and allow labels like `stable - 0.4` which means that, a future crate works with the current version minus 4 minor versions. I think this is even a reasonable alternative to LTS releases as proposed in #2483. (Or we could then say that `lts` is `stable` minus one year or another reasonable time considered to be a long term...)

Author: As for LTS releases, they are not only about MSRV, they will also serve as a synchronization point for crate authors and package authors (think Debian). LTS also means that crucial updates (e.g. security or soundness fixes) will be backported to those versions. So I don't think that `stable - 0.4` will be able to cover all LTS use-cases.

Reviewer 7: > Probably my wording was not clear enough, but I've meant almost exactly the same behaviour as was described by you.

To be honest, I am still not sure that we are talking about the same thing: I think, the crucial difference is that in the first case (`rust = 1.30`) the published MSRV on crates.io is `1.30`, while in the second case (`rust = stable`), the published MSRV is `stable(1.30)`. To be even clearer: `1.30` is **not at all** equal to `stable(1.30)`. While they behave equal when it comes to the crate's current version, they are different for the next (patch or minor) version: In the first case the MSRV will be `1.30`, while in the second case it might be `1.30` or `stable(1.31)` or even `1.31`. Therefore, the crate user can determine from the difference between `1.30` and `stable(1.30)` how the crate author answers the question "Is an MSRV change a breaking change?". In the first case, the answer is yes, in the second case it is no!

I would like to see a whole passage dedicated to that matter which leaves no room for interpretation... ;-)

I would also like to see a passage dedicated to "version arithmetic" which covers e.g.:

- Under which circumstances is a MSRV downgrade/upgrade a breaking change?
  - `1.30` can be `1.29`, `1.28.1`, ... in the next crate version.
  - `stable(1.30)` can be `1.29`, `1.28.1`, ... or `stable(1.30.1)`, `stable(1.31)`, ... or `1.30`, `1.30.1`, `1.31`, ... in the next crate version (as long as the rustc is already stabilized). 
- What if crate A depends on crate B and crate C. What are the requirements for the MSRV of crate A given the MSRV of B and C?
  - Something like MSRV(A) <= min(MSRV(A), MSRV(B)). We need a (partial?) order here!
- (How) is it possible to calculate with MSRVs? Examples:
  - stable(1.30.1) - 0.0.1 = stable(1.30)
  - stable(1.30) - 0.3 = stable(1.27)
  - stable(1.30.1) - 0.0.2 = stable(1.30.0) *Does this even work?*
  - stable(1.30) - 1 = undefined

> As for LTS releases, they are not only about MSRV, they will also serve as a synchronization point for crate authors and package authors (think Debian). LTS also means that crucial updates (e.g. security or soundness fixes) will be backported to those versions.

You are right. But I highly doubt the utility of LTS releases for other cases than language version requirements:

- Take the argument about patches that are backported to LTS. If such a package becomes necessary, Debian (or anyone else) will need to adopt the fixed LTS version. In that case, they can also adopt the current stable version, since Rust is guaranteed to be backward-compatible (in version 1.x). LTS releases are even counterproductive in this use case, since they encourage not upgrading to the current release and therefore increase the number of old compilers out there.
- Take the argument about synchronization points. We already have them, they are called "editions". (We could also publish guideline that give suggestion when a good times has come to update and how long crates should support old compiler versions. This could be done in an RFC which depends on this one.)

Reviewer 7: Okay, I've re-read your RFC and I think now that You've mentioned some of my points. But perhaps, they are still useful to clarify things... ;-)

Btw Thanks for Your effort!

Reviewer 7: I was thinking about the theoretical foundations of my proposal and I came up with [this](https://github.com/teiesti/compdep/blob/master/compdep.pdf) article. It is some kind of pre-work for my proposal in this thread but I think its worth sharing here. (Anywhere, I'll try to write another article surrounding these ideas soon.)

An internals thread for a discussion about the article can be found [here](https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/article-compatibility-with-dependencies/7948?u=teiesti).

will not select current Nightly version, but will assume that cratecan be built
with all Nightly versions.

In case if you have `rust="stable"`, but execute `cargo publish` with Nightly
toolcahin you will get an error. Same goes for `rust="nightly: *"` which can be
published only using nightly toolchain.

If you are sure that your crate supports older Rust versions (e.g. by using CI
testing) you can specify this version explicitly, e.g. `rust="1.30"`.
On `cargo publish` it will be checked that crate indeed can be built with the
specified version, i.e. the respective toolchain will have to be installed on
your computer.

The value of `rust` field (explicit or autmatically selected by `cargo`) will
be used to determine if crate can be used with the crate user's toolchain and
to select appropriate dependency versions.

For example, lets imagine that your crate depends on crate `foo` with 10 published
versions from `0.1.0` to `0.1.10`, in versions from `0.1.0` to `0.1.5` `rust`
field in the `Cargo.toml` sent to crates.io equals to "1.30" and for others to
"1.40". Now if you'll build your project with Rust 1.33 `cargo` will select

> `foo v0.1.5`, and `foo v0.1.10` if you'll build your project with Rust 1.30 or

Reviewer 8: Shouldn't this be "`foo v0.1.10` if you build your project with Rust 1.40 or later" (1.30 -> 1.40)?

Author: Yes, you are right. Thank you for noticing the typo!

their crates early.

## Second stage: `cargo publish` check

The next step is for `cargo publish` to require use of the toolchain specified
in the `rust` field, for example crates with:
- `rust="stable"` can be published only with a stable toolchain, though not
necessarily with the latest one. Cargo will insert toolchain version before
publishing the crate as was described in the "guide-level explanation".
- `rust="nightly: *"` can be published only with a nightly toolchain. If finer
grained "nightly: ..." (see "nightly versions" section) is selected, then one
of the selected Nightly versions will have to be used.
- `rust="1.30"` can be published only with (stable) Rust 1.30, even if it's
not the latest stable Rust version.

Using the usual build check `cargo publish` will verify that crate indeed can be
built using specified MSRV. This check can be used with exisiting `--no-verify`
option.

## Third stage: versions resolution

`rust` field will be used as a constraint for dependency versions resolution.
If user uses e.g. Rust 1.40 and uses crate `foo = "0.2"`, but
all selected versions of `foo` specify MSRV e.g. equal 1.41 or bigger (or even

> nightly) `cargo` will issue an error.

Reviewer 9: What does this mean in this context:

If `foo` has published versions `0.2.1` (with `rust = 1.40`) and `0.2.2` (with `rust = 1.41`), and you're running rust `1.40`, depending on `foo = 0.2`, is the intention to:
- Error because you explicitly said to use the latest patch of `foo` is `0.2.2` and the latest patch requires a rust version greater than you are running.
- Build using `foo` `0.2.1` because it fits your wildcard and works for your rust version?

I would want to make sure your crate fails to build in this case because otherwise you might be using an insecure or error-prone version of a crate in this case even if the issue was patched.

Reviewer 10: There should be a separate flag to indicate insecure versions, a bump in patch level is meaningless for determining if there are open security issues.  Security flaws can be discovered, but not fixed, so reporting error-prone versions should be separate from uploading new versions.

Reviewer 9: If you write `foo = 0.2`, you're explicitly saying you want the latest patch version of `foo 0.2` available, even if that breaks your build.

Reviewer 11: That's explicitly _not_ how it works.

* 0.2 is compatible with anything in the 0.2.z series
* If another crate anywhere in the build needs 0.2.1 and latest is 0.2.2, you get 0.2.1 even though it's not latest.

Reviewer 10: If there is already precedent for not always pulling the latest, wouldn't rustc needing version X be akin to the create's needs?  Not that I need any specific behavior...

I join this thread when I discovered that I couldn't build RLS on Debian's rustc and the failure mode was to try to build and fail.  I'm most interested in the cases where rust does build something, but doesn't produce well and good binaries because it's lacking some feature.

Reviewer 9: TIL it doesn't use the latest version if you don't specifically tell it to. My apologies!

`rust` field value will be checked as well, on crate build `cargo` will check if
all upstream dependencies can be built with the specified MSRV. (i.e. it will
check if there is exists solution for given crates and Rust versions constraints)

Yanked crates will be ignored in this process.

Implementing this functionality hopefully will allow to close the debate regarding
MSRV handling in crate versions and will allow crate authors to feel less
restrictive about bumping their crate's MSRV. (though it can be a usefull
convention for post-1.0 crates to bump minor version on MSRV change to allow
publishing backports which fix serious issues using patch version)

> ## Extension: nightly versions

Reviewer 12: I like the idea of flagging supported compiler versions, but I don't quite understand how a crate would actually be able to use this in practice if the list of supported versions has to go in the published Cargo.toml file itself.

Typically when publishing a nightly only crate, I know it works for the current nightly and that it will continue to work for all future nightlies until there is a breaking change. With this design, it seems like I'd need to publish a new version of the crate every day with an updated Cargo.toml saying that the new nightly also works or else my users would be unable to upgrade their compiler.

Author: As I see it, the main use-case will be to provide exact nightly version, on which crate is developed and tested. So e.g. if you depend on `rocket x.y.z` which is developed and published with nightly-2019-02-01 toolchain, then your crate will have to be developed with the same toolchain. This will result in a soft synchronization of nightly versions used across nightly crates ecosystem. (e.g. crates will update nightlies ever 2-3 weeks or so, not every night)

If your crate does not experience breakage too often, then you can use default `nightly: *` option.

Reviewer 12: Using the field to indicate a known good nightly version seems reasonable. However, I'd be a concerned about using it for version resolution. The entire ecosystem of nightly crates would have to update in lockstep or else become mutually incompatible. Further, trying out new nightlies would require waiting for all your dependencies to be updated. Basically, you'd no longer be running on the nightly channel but instead a sort of "monthly" channel which lacked both the stability of stable and the quick bug fixes of nightly.

Author: I think most of the nightly crates will just use "nightly: *", some may use ranges (though properly testing it will not be easy), finer grained nightly selection will be used only be a handful of crates with rare intersections with each other. Plus do not forget that you always can disable MSRV constraint in dependency versions resolution with `--no-msrv-check` flag.

Reviewer 12: I'm sorry, I'm still not fully understanding. Lets use a concrete example. I maintain the [`rahashmap`](crates.io/crates/rahashmap) crate which depends on some rather unstable features and so breaks every couple weeks. The last time this happened, I fixed the issue and promptly published a new version. This new version supports nightly-2018-07-10, nightly-2018-07-11, and all future nightlies until another breaking change happens. If this RFC & extension were implemented, what would the correct value for MSRV?

Author: The problem with "all future nightlies until another breaking change happens" is that this constraint can be properly expressed at the moment of crate publishing, as you don't know when breaking change will happen. The closest thing which we can get is to use `rust="nightly: >= 2018-07-10"` (it's mentioned in the extension). On the next breaking change you'll publish `rust="nightly: >= 2018-08-10"`. So assuming that user keeps all his dependencies updated, with new toolchain he'll use newer crate version, and on old toolchain the older crate version will be used. But `nightly: *` will not be much worse and will require significantly less effort from you.

But this approach feels quite fragile. To reliably solve this problem we will need an additional channel for notifying users "this crate broke on the following nightly versions" which can't be done via `Cargo.toml`.
